# Awards Show Predictor

During the spring semester of 2018 I took a class called Social Sensing and Cyber-Physical Systems. A major component of this class was a semester long group project that focused on social sensing and making use of humans as sensors to create a predictive model or data map of some sort. For this project I worked with Aidan Lewis ([@aidanlewis9]) and Alex Ayala ([@aayala4]) to create a predictive model for awards shows such as the Oscars. Specifically, we aimed to see if we could predict the nominees and winner of the Best Picture category of the Oscars. We did this by collecting data for multiple movies from a variety of sources for two different years, 2016 and 2017. We used the 2016 data to train our model and create a list of optimized weights for each of the different types of data. We then used these optimized weights in conjunction with the 2017 data to predict that 2017 nominees and winner. With the genetic algorithm method we were able to predict up to 7 out of the 9 2017 nominees correctly but were not able to predict the winner. We then used a random forest classifier to benchmark our results and were able to predict up to 8 out of the 9 2017 nominees. We were pleased with these results but also identified future areas for growth. For example by training our model on more years of previous data and by including more data sources we could hopefully improve the accuracy of our predictions. More details of this project are outlined in the separate folders that can be found in this repository.

[@aidanlewis9]: https://github.com/aidanlewis9
[@aayala4]: https://github.com/aayala4
